So we've talked a little bit
about some of the utility types,
that are either built into TypeScript or
built into Reacts types.
This is not an exhaustive list
of all the utility types.
There are a lot more than a lot
more built into TypeScript,
you can go through the docs and see.
We're just gonna cover some
of the ones who might,
there were most often to likely
find while dealing with React.
The first one is this idea of Keyof.
And keyof allows you to basically
get all the keys in a given type.
So you think about like
object keys in JavaScript,
this one will get you just all of
the keys an object in a union type.
So if you wanted to get just all
the names of a prop on a given object,
keyof will allow you to do that.
We'll actually use this
to figure out like,
when an object like the table rows on a
character card we'll see in a little bit.
I only want to let them specify a known
property on that to pick out what we want
to show on the table row,
we can use key I've defined that as well.
If you just need to get a single one,
you want to get the value of
a single key and an object.
So you can use a bracket notation
that we've seen in JavaScript before.
So prop0 will get us the type of C.
Again, if that was a string or
a number, it would be string or number.
Numbers or work, if you wanted to get two,
you can just use a union
type in there as well.
And again, it's a way to kind of
effectively met a program with our types.
If you want to get all the values,
there isn't necessarily
a built-in helper for that.
If passing in a union of keys,
will get you multiple keys and
saying, okay, passing all the keys
will get you all the values.
So here you can see we've
got this type of obj.
If we say, go get me the values of all
the keys, we'll get all the values.
Sometimes it'd be clear, there are things
that you used to have to write your own
utility tests for them,
they're not built into TypeScript.
So I wouldn't be surprised if
that changes in the future but
as of TypeScript 4.2,
that is absolutely the case.
Unions we've seen but
never really talked about directly,
which is you have a type A that has a,
b and c, right?
It can be either a, or b, or c.
But you can also do that
across two different types.
So we say it can either be
the type of A or the type of B.
Well, now you get everything
kind of in both of them.
The interesting part in
the reason that I bring this up,
cuz unions will be anything
as isn't either one of them,
but it's kind of
the opposite with objects.
So if you unioned objectType A and
objectType B,
the only one that would be in
here is this idea of sharedProp,
because it's the only one
common between the two.
Intersections for raw values are only
the ones that appear in both types,
but you actually saw us use this with
a pizza state before with objects that
will actually combine them together.
So with the objects it will
allow us to say like, okay,
everything is one plus the other one.
So they act opposite,
objects versus primitives.
I don't really get to make the rules here,
I just have to try my
best to explain them.
So for primitives, a union will be
anything that's neither one of them,
but for
objects is only the shared properties.
An intersection in the case of this
ampersand that ends between A and
B on that last line is only once common,
but if you do it two objects it
will create a combined object of the two,
I don't make the rules.
We're not gonna get into this but like you
might see it when you hover over some of
the ones in React, is you can use
conditionals but it's only ternary to
figure out, okay, this is one if it has a
property of a length and that's a number,
cool, rapid, an array, otherwise
give me back the object to itself.
We're not gonna use it directly, if you
needed to get really sophisticated types
you could, but you we will see
it when we hover over some.
So if you see like weird
question marks and colons,
they are effectively the weird question
marks and colons that you know and
love from Terry's,
they're just in your types as well.
And here's an example of
what that might look like.
This is purely one that the types
will actually be only true or false.
But it's a way to look
at both the generics and
the ternary which is if you look
at that result1, if 1 2 and
3 extends B so 123 is of anything
as a number, is 1 2 and 3 a number?
Yes, that would come out as true,
otherwise it would be false.
All right, this one's kind of interesting.
So exclude actually uses one
of these Turner's, right,
but it's built in to TypeScript.
So you don't have to write
an exclude utility helper yourself,
cuz it's built into TypeScript.
But if you wanted to,
this is how it would work.
So we've got, hey, we got this type,
it's either 1, 2 or 3 and
we wanna exclude 2 as that
second argument there.
Cool, you get a new type that has 1 and 3.
You can also again is that extend.
So we've got 1 a 2 b, I wanna exclude
anything that's a number that'll work.
Or if you wanna remove one union for
another one,
it's one of those things where
you would use it every day, no.
Is eventually gonna be something that you
need to just have in your mental framework
for when you need to say, okay,
I need everything from this
other type except for one value.
Absolutely, if there's certain
values that we don't wanna
pass to a smaller component, so
on and so forth and I do generically.
This is again, something that is
somewhat useful to have available to us.
The opposite of exclude is not include,
cause that would be too easy.
The opposite of exclude is extract which,
again,
if this will pull out only the numbers or
only the ones that you're looking for.
Again, I don't make the rules here,
I just explained them.
A pick allows you very
much I pick in lodash.
Takes one type, and allows you to
just pick the keys that you want.
So if you wanted,
only certain keys that have another type,
you can dynamically do that as well.
And it's got a friend called omit,
right, which is okay,
take all the properties of this type and
just don't pick these 1 or 2.
This will actually be super useful for us
in a lot of ways which is like okay, hey,
I'm gonna define a custom button.
Take all the properties
out of a button except for
the ones that I'm gonna define myself,
right?
And I will allow you to do that with your
reaction components as you wrap them.
And we also string manipulation.
If you need to change some of the casing
on a given string type, there are actually
utility types built into TypeScript
that allow you to take a given value,
a given string make it all uppercase or
lowercase, whatever you need to do.
Some of the React specific ones.
So React to HTML props and it takes this
generic of some HTML element, will give
you a type representing everything that
is built into that native HTML DOM node.
So if you want to create your own
input field and you don't want to
necessarily copy all the props of that
an input field tax according to the spec,
this will be like our props,
you have that ampersand and
then everything that a HTML
input element can do as well.
And so
now it will be our special input props,
plus the everything that's an element.
So before we have those range sliders and
those range inputs,
right now they will not take
everything that an input took.
However, we could theoretically and
arguably should go in and say, okay,
adjustment input props are the special
things that we wanted,
cuz label is not one of them for instance.
Plus, everything that an input field
does and we'll pass them all on through.
This is incredibly powerful if you're
building a component library, or
a large enough application that you're
building a large enough React application
is effectively its own library,
cuz you're using pieces of it
throughout the application as well.
And finally, React.ComponentProps.
I believe we saw this one
a little bit earlier.
We'll use it again allows you to
take any given React component,
and figure out its type.
This is also useful.
Let's say, before we would do
an export type or whatever.
Let's say a component didn't export the
type, you can actually kinda figure out
what it was or
you pass in a component you get its type,
and then it will pull out the prop
type itself and allow you to
kind of read the type of another actual
component that you're using in React.
So this is some of the utility types that
we can use in our React applications.